>> Steve Kinney: Talk about
generator functions, right?
Generator functions are,
I believe in the ES6 pack,
ES2015, and effectively they're
a way to delay execution.
Normally we say functions
run to completion.
When you call a function,
it does everything until it either hits
a return statement, throws an arrow that
you didn't catch, or reaches the end.
So this idea of like hey,
wait a while, is not built into
the JavaScript programming language.
There's like a little blurb
about promises in the ES6 spec.
But despite all the working we
do with asynchronous JavaScript,
there's no mention of asynchrony
in the JavaScript spec.
Other than the little line on
promises in the job queue, and
that wasn't until 20 years
into the language, right?
A lot of that is provided by the web APIs,
like XML HTTP request or
by Node.js, right?
The language itself is no more
asynchronous than Ruby is, or PHP, or
anything along those lines.
So generators give us a way to stop,
wait until it's time to start again.
And go do the next thing,
which is really helpful sometimes for
dealing with asynchronous code.
So here's a part of
the promise of the ES6 spec was
that you should never have
to write function again.
But this is one example where there
isn't an arrow function syntax for it.
I don't really care, but I know some
people care very deeply about this.
And you'll notice that it's just
got a little star next to it, and
that's what makes it a generator function,
you can think of it as a superstar.
Fun fact about the star,
the star can go next to the function.
It can go next to the function name.
It just can't float in the middle.
It has to be globbed on to
one of those two identifiers.
It just can't sit with
a space on each side.
So we can all have a long argument
later on which syntax we all like, but
this is the one I've gone with.
So, we look at this,
generate three numbers.
We yield 1, we yield 2, we yield 3,
that's kind of interesting.
>> Steve Kinney: And then we can
effectively think about it instantiating
a new generator, right?
If we call it, we get back a generator.
We can say .next, you get yield 1 and
done being false.
You call .next again, you get 2.
And still not done,
you call next, you get 3.
But then, you've hit the end of
the function and you're done.
But, the important part
is once you've yielded 1,
it kind of stopped in between lines 2 and
3.
It just paused,
it didn't run to completion.
It didn't follow until it hit a return
statement, or threw an error, or
anything like that.
It just, hey,
I'll just sit here half done.
You let me know when you
want me to continue.
And so this is going to become a slightly
powerful idea when we think about I
haven't heard back from the network yet,
why don't you wait here.
Cool, so the interesting thing that most
people don't know about generators is
that you can actually pass in more data,
even while they're paused.
So we'll have this one
called addNumbersEventually.
And it will take a, and
then you see how on line 2 it yields a?
It will give you back a, but
when you call next, you can pass in
a value that will be given to b, and
then eventually you can add a + b.
So we have a, we yield a back
out to whatever, call it .next.
And when they pass in, when they
call .next they can pass in b and
then we'll have both of them.
So we can add numbers eventually.
We'll say .next is 2,
so it gave us back 1.
It took in the 2 and
then we called it again.
We yield 3, or return 3 rather.
So this is kinda cool, so
we can pause things, all right,
we can have a thing, we can wait.
We can also actually pick
up back where you left off.
I have more information for you, right?
Hopefully async is ringing in
your mind at this point of hey,
I need to get some information
from the server, chill.
Okay, guess what,
we got the information from the server,
pick up where you left off, right?
And you might use generators more than you
think without ever typing the generator,
right, and
we'll talk about that in a second.
So we have the ability to pause functions,
and come back later with more information.
This seems like we could do
something clever here, and
escape a lot of the asynchronous patterns.
So this is very contrived, but
here I have a generator function.
I've called it main and
I wanna get my GitHub profile and
my buddy Lon's GitHub profile.
Those are two network requests.
I don't wanna go into callback hell here,
where I have to fetch the first one.
And then have another callback fetch
the second one, or fetch both of them,
but have a gate to make sure I get both,
right?
Yes, I could use promise.all, totally, but
still even that if one of them fails and
not the other, it's just a mess, right?
Here I can yield the first one,
wait, go get the second one.
You can see that we have a generator.
We start it up on line 12 by calling it.
And we kick it off on
line 13 by saying next.
It waits until we make the Ajax request.
That promise resolves on line 2, and
hold on, I gotta highlight this for you.
All right, we can yield,
when that promise resolves on line 2,
it kicks it back off again, and
we can go to the next line.
And so we have a way to pause,
until we hear back from the network and
move on to the next thing.
If part of you is like, hey,
this reminds me of async await.
That's because async await is basically
syntactic sugar on this, right?
It reminds you of async await,
cuz effectively it's a much
uglier version of async await.
But that is generators and
that's what generators bring
to the table in this case.